Now that I gave you an introduction to Kubernetes, let me just talk a little bit about containers in general.
If you already are familiar with containers.
You can just skip this lecture and continue with the next one.
So, let's first talk a little bit about the difference between a virtual machine and a container. On the
left here you see what a virtual machine is.
You have a server,
the physical machine, then on a physical machine you put a Host OS, here in green.
Then you have the Hypervisor, which is good to manage the guest operating systems for you.
So, you can have multiple guest operating systems on one host operating system using this Hypervisor.
Every guest operation is completely isolated.
It has its own binary, its own libraries, it can run applications, it is pretty heavy like a full virtual
machine, it is a full operating system with the binary, libraries, and obligation bundles.
And, it also takes some time to boot up.
It needs to go through the whole boot cycle which can take some minutes before your guest operating system is live.
So, that brings us to containers.
So, here on the right you see where the container is.
You have still the physical server.
Then you have a host operating system and then you can have multiple containers on your host operating system using the docker engine.
Docker is just one example of software that is available.
There is other software available for containers as well.
Here we have three containers. The containers contain binary and libraries with applications in them.
They don't need to boot up the full guest operating system.
So, when you launch a container instead of waiting minutes it will almost instantly start your container.
So, it is a lot more lightweight than the virtual machines.
Containers can also be a couple of megabytes where virtual machines are often a lot bigger.
Than containers on cloud providers are still a little bit different than just running a container on the host operating system,
because cloud providers still use these Hypervisor to isolate the customers from each other.
So, you still have a server, a host operating system Hypervisor, then you have a guest operating system,
and on top of that you have containers.
Currently that's just how it is,
but you will still get all the benefits of containerization even on cloud, you just have this extra abstraction
between your containers and the host operating system.
On cloud providers you typically are going to have multiple guest operating systems running their multiple containers and
those nodes together will then form your cluster "reg1" to run containers on. Docker is the most popular container software.
There are alternatives available an alternative to Dakar is rkt which also works with Kubernetes.
If you don't want to use Docker you can use rkt instead. Docker consists of Docker engine.
It's Docker runtime, it's a software to make run the Docker images,
and also the software that you will you to build Docker images to then run on your Kubernetes cluster.
You also have Docker Hub for help, which is an online service to store and fetch Docker images.
So, once you build an image with Docker engine, you can then store it on the Internet using the help,
you have public repositories, you have private repositories, where you can store your Docker images.
The Docker Hub also allows you to build those images online.
So, they provide a service to you that you don't have to build them on your PC, you can also do online.
The cloud provides themselves also have alternatives to DockerHub.
For instance, AWS has its own repository where you can see your doctor images.
You can also run your own Docker Hub, you can run your own repository, if you would like to.
So, what are the benefits of the Docker.
Isolation, you ship a binary with all the dependencies.
No more it works on my machine but not in production.
It's the same binary that you use on your machine
to test your software that you will be done using in production.
So, there is a closer parity between Dev, QA, and production environments, because you are using the same
binary. Docker makes development teams able to ship faster.
We can build images pretty quick,
you can them distribute them pretty easily using Docker Hub or another registry and then you servers can start pulling those images.
This would be a lot more cumbersome with virtual machine images than with containing images.
You can run the same Docker image unchanged on laptops, data center, VMs, and cloud providers.
So, you can have the same image that you run on premise and in the cloud, and should act exactly the same
Docker use linux containers, which is a kernel feature for operating system level isolation.
The reason why containers cannot go to the whole system or to containers or you don't see information
of other containers is because of this isolation done on a kernel level.
If you have read something about containers you probably have seen this analogy already.
It's a ship with containers on it. So, basically with containerization builds your container,
in that exact same state, so you can run it wherever you want.
The container contains all of dependencies, so it should execute exactly the same,
whether you run it locally, in the cloud, on Kubernetes, or anywhere you want to run it.
And that is the main advantage of using containers.